GPT Jams.md, before:

# Weekend GPT Jam Tech Showcase

**GPT Jams** are hosted by [Anne Murphy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anne-murphy-philanthropy/) and [Don Wackerly](https://www.linkedin.com/in/don-wackerly-mba-18670012/) of [Empowered Fundraising](https://empoweredfundraiser.com/) Consulting and Coaching.

Pete is presenting on Obsidian, March 23, 2024.

## Peter Kaminski

- AI Instructor, AI Artist, Software Startups (innovation, technical co-founder, product and market architecture), Consultant (people and technology), Wiki Champion
- Socialtext co-founder and founding product architect, 2003-2008
- website: [peterkaminski.wiki](https://peterkaminski.wiki/)

## Obsidian

- Desktop and mobile tool for editing and managing text files, around 1M users
- About (manifesto and team): <https://obsidian.md/about>
- Markdown-centric, internal linking, tags, huge plugin ecosystem
- Obsidian Sync, Obsidian Publish

## Why to learn Obsidian

- to keep personal notes
- to keep _versioned_ personal notes
- to work with a team, and keep team notes
- it's free
- it's futureproof
- each note is easy to repurpose and share
- to create professional-looking websites that can be hosted for free
- you can "link as you think", use tags, and other organization methods
- it uses Markdown, which is easy to use and useful many other places

## Kinds of things you can store in Obsidian

- work and personal journal
- "lab notebook" (not just for scientists!)
- personal or team knowledgebase
- drafts, templates for all sorts of docs and communications
- client and project documents
- work and personal task management
- non-fiction or fiction books you're writing
- custom GPT instructions (various versions)
- all your ChatGPT conversations

## Ground Vehicle Types

Consider a range of ground vehicles.

- Rolls-Royce Phantom (luxury)
- Volvo S90 (premium)
- Lexus GS 350 (upper mid-range)
- Toyota Camry (mid-range practical)
- Honda Odyssey (minivan, family-friendly)
- Toyota RAV4 (SUV / crossover)
- Jeep Wrangler (off-road capable)
- HMMWV (Humvee, military / utility)
- Pierce Arrow fire engine (technical / special purpose)
- John Deere tractor (utility / heavy duty)
- PistenBully snow groomer (specialty)

Obsidian is around the Jeep Wrangler level. A great vehicle for around town and on the freeway, but has a little more customizability and technical capability than, say, a Camry. The interface is basically the same as any other car. It's less comfortable than something fancier, but lovable and easy to live with. Maybe you've added a roll bar, some jerry cans of water or fuel, a winch, KC lights, etc. You need to know how and when to use 4WD.

## Pete's "Markdown Ecosytem"

- Millions of people have their own preferred ecosystem, this is mine
- [Massive Wiki](https://massive.wiki/) - a wiki ecosystem that provides classic wiki utility, with a plurality of tools and processes that enable decentralization and federation of the pages; public benefit, not for profit
- [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) - a personal knowledge manager that's based on Markdown files, free for personal use
- [HackMD](https://hackmd.io/) - a collaborative Markdown editor, free for basic features
- (above this line works for everybody, below this line it's more complicated and specialized)
  - [Typora](https://typora.io/) - clean, minimal Markdown editor, $15
  - [Git](https://git-scm.com/) - comprehensive and confusing collaboration and version control for text files, open source
  - [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) and other software developer tools, open source
  - [Pulsar](https://pulsar-edit.dev/), similar to Obsidian but developer-oriented

Commit message:

added "stuff from the web"

GPT Jams.md, after:

# Weekend GPT Jam Tech Showcase

**GPT Jams** are hosted by [Anne Murphy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anne-murphy-philanthropy/) and [Don Wackerly](https://www.linkedin.com/in/don-wackerly-mba-18670012/) of [Empowered Fundraising](https://empoweredfundraiser.com/) Consulting and Coaching.

Pete is presenting on Obsidian, March 23, 2024.

## Peter Kaminski

- AI Instructor, AI Artist, Software Startups (innovation, technical co-founder, product and market architecture), Consultant (people and technology), Wiki Champion
- Socialtext co-founder and founding product architect, 2003-2008
- website: [peterkaminski.wiki](https://peterkaminski.wiki/)

## Obsidian

- Desktop and mobile tool for editing and managing text files, around 1M users
- About (manifesto and team): <https://obsidian.md/about>
- Markdown-centric, internal linking, tags, huge plugin ecosystem
- Obsidian Sync, Obsidian Publish

## Why to learn Obsidian

- to keep personal notes
- to keep _versioned_ personal notes
- to work with a team, and keep team notes
- it's free
- it's futureproof
- each note is easy to repurpose and share
- to create professional-looking websites that can be hosted for free
- you can "link as you think", use tags, and other organization methods
- it uses Markdown, which is easy to use and useful many other places

## Kinds of things you can store in Obsidian

- work and personal journal
- "lab notebook" (not just for scientists!)
- personal or team knowledgebase
- drafts, templates for all sorts of docs and communications
- client and project documents
- work and personal task management
- stuff from the web (bookmarks, pages, files, etc.)
- non-fiction or fiction books you're writing
- custom GPT instructions (various versions)
- all your ChatGPT conversations

## Ground Vehicle Types

Consider a range of ground vehicles.

- Rolls-Royce Phantom (luxury)
- Volvo S90 (premium)
- Lexus GS 350 (upper mid-range)
- Toyota Camry (mid-range practical)
- Honda Odyssey (minivan, family-friendly)
- Toyota RAV4 (SUV / crossover)
- Jeep Wrangler (off-road capable)
- HMMWV (Humvee, military / utility)
- Pierce Arrow fire engine (technical / special purpose)
- John Deere tractor (utility / heavy duty)
- PistenBully snow groomer (specialty)

Obsidian is around the Jeep Wrangler level. A great vehicle for around town and on the freeway, but has a little more customizability and technical capability than, say, a Camry. The interface is basically the same as any other car. It's less comfortable than something fancier, but lovable and easy to live with. Maybe you've added a roll bar, some jerry cans of water or fuel, a winch, KC lights, etc. You need to know how and when to use 4WD.

## Pete's "Markdown Ecosytem"

- Millions of people have their own preferred ecosystem, this is mine
- [Massive Wiki](https://massive.wiki/) - a wiki ecosystem that provides classic wiki utility, with a plurality of tools and processes that enable decentralization and federation of the pages; public benefit, not for profit
- [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) - a personal knowledge manager that's based on Markdown files, free for personal use
- [HackMD](https://hackmd.io/) - a collaborative Markdown editor, free for basic features
- (above this line works for everybody, below this line it's more complicated and specialized)
  - [Typora](https://typora.io/) - clean, minimal Markdown editor, $15
  - [Git](https://git-scm.com/) - comprehensive and confusing collaboration and version control for text files, open source
  - [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) and other software developer tools, open source
  - [Pulsar](https://pulsar-edit.dev/), similar to Obsidian but developer-oriented
